Migration guide for new Material 3 `Slider` shapes (#11087)
flutter/website: src/content/release/breaking-changes/introduce-new-slider-shapes.md

---
title: Introduce new Material 3 `Slider` shapes
description: >-
  Adds new Material 3 `Slider` shapes which were introduced in the Material 3
  specification.
---

## Summary

> The `Slider` widget now supports the new Material 3 visual style. This changes
> the default `Slider` shapes such as the track shape, thumb shape, and value
> indicator shape.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Slider` widget now supports the updated Material 3 visual style. This affects
the default `Slider` shapes, such as the track, thumb,, and value indicator shapes.
```

## Background

> The Material 3 specification introduces new `Slider` shapes. The new track
> shape includes an updated height, a gap between the active and inactive tracks,
> and stop indicators to show the end value of the inactive track. When the thumb
> is pressed, the thumb adjusts it's width and the track adjusts its shape. The
> new value indicator shape is a rounded rectangle. New color mappings are also
> introduced for some of the `Slider` shapes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Material 3 specification introduces updated `Slider` shapes. The new track
shape includes an updated height, a gap between the active and inactive tracks,
and stop indicators to show the end value of the inactive track. 
Pressing the thumb adjusts  its width and the track adjusts its shape. The
new value indicator shape is a rounded rectangle. New color mappings are also
introduced for some of the `Slider` shapes.
```

## Migration guide

> The `Slider` widget now supports the new Material 3 visual style. This changes
> the default `Slider` shapes such as the track shape, thumb shape, and value
> indicator shape.

Reviewer: This was repeating the section above.

```suggestion
```

> To use the previous `Slider` shapes and color mappings, set the following

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You automatically get the new `Slider` shapes and color mappings.
To use the previous `Slider` shapes and color mappings, set the following
```

previous `Slider` shapes and color mappings:

### Code before migration

```dart
sliderTheme: SliderThemeData(
  // ...
),
```

### Code after migration

```dart
sliderTheme: SliderThemeData(
  // Track shape.
  trackShape: const RoundedRectSliderTrackShape(),
  trackHeight: 4,
  // Thumb shape.
  thumbShape: const RoundSliderThumbShape(),
  // Value indicator shape.
  valueIndicatorShape: const DropSliderValueIndicatorShape(),
  // Color mappings.
  inactiveTrackColor: Theme.of(context).colorScheme.surfaceContainerHighest,
  activeTickMarkColor: Theme.of(context).colorScheme.onPrimary.withOpacity(0.38),
  inactiveTickMarkColor: Theme.of(context).colorScheme.onSurfaceVariant.withOpacity(0.38),
  disabledActiveTrackColor: Theme.of(context).colorScheme.onSurface.withOpacity(0.38),
  disabledInactiveTrackColor: Theme.of(context).colorScheme.onSurface.withOpacity(0.38),
  disabledThumbColor: Theme.of(context).colorScheme.onSurface.withOpacity(0.38),
  valueIndicatorColor: Theme.of(context).colorScheme.primary,
  valueIndicatorTextStyle: Theme.of(context).textTheme.labelMedium!.copyWith(
    color: Theme.of(context).colorScheme.onPrimary,
  ),
),
```

## Timeline

> Landed in version: TBA<br>

Reviewer: Can you provide the version?
